DEMUX(1)
========
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
demux - separate lines according to a collection of patterns


SYNOPSIS
--------
*demux.py* (-e 'PATTERN' 'OUT_FILE'...)+ [-d 'DEF_FILE'] [-- 'IN_FILE' ...]
*demux.py* -f 'PAT_FILE' [-d 'DEF_FILE'] [-- 'IN_FILE' ...]


DESCRIPTION
-----------
*demux* searches the named input 'IN_FILE's (or standard input if no
files are named, or if a single hyphen (-) is given as a file name),
testing each line against a sequence of 'PATTERN's. The line is
emitted to the 'OUT_FILE' correponding to the first pattern that
matches. If no explicitly-specified pattern matches, the line is
printed to 'DEF_FILE', or to standard output if none is specified.

Each 'PATTERN' is a Python regular expression. 'PATTERN's can be
specified in two ways. The first syntax form specifies 'PATTERN's on
the command line, in which case the "corresponding" 'OUT_FILE' to a
pattern is the file named directly after that pattern on the command
line. The second syntax form names a pattern file 'PAT_FILE' that
specifies both patterns and the names of the output format (see
<<X1*,*PATTERN FILES*>>).

OPTIONS
-------
*-d* 'DEF_FILE'::
     Specifies a file that will receive any lines that do not match
     any patterns. This is equivalent to *-e ".\*"* 'DEF_FILE'. If no
     default file is specified, *demux* will write non-matching lines
     to standard output. (This behavior can be explicitly requested by
     specifying a hyphen (-) as 'DEF_FILE'.)

*-e* 'PATTERN' 'OUT_FILE'::
     Specifies a pattern/output file pair. When 'PATTERN' is the first
     pattern that matches an input line, that line is written to
     'OUT_FILE'. If 'OUT_FILE' is a hyphen (-), the line is written to
     standard output.

*-f* 'PAT_FILE'::
     Specifies a file to read pattern/output file pairs from. This
     takes the place of a sequence of *-e* arguments. See
     <<X1*,*PATTERN FILES*>>.


[[X1]]
PATTERN FILES
-------------
*demux* has the ability to the list of patterns and output files from
a file instead of the command line. The syntax for this file is a
series of lines of the form::
       'OUT_FILE' *<-* 'PATTERN'

Using a pattern file behaves just as if each 'OUT_FILE'/'PATERN' pair
in the file had been listed as a *-e* argument to the command.

EXIT STATUS
-----------
*0*::
	The comman run successfully. (Unlike *grep*, this is not
	indicitive of any particular behavior having been seen with
	regards to having seen any of the patterns.)

*>0*::
	There was a syntax error from the command or 'PAT_FILE', or
	one of the files could not be opened.

BUGS
----

None known. Please report any you encounter to *driscoll@cs.wisc.edu*
or the Github repository
*https://www.github.com/EvanED/demux*. (Feature requests are welcome
too, but may not be acted upon. Feature requests with patches are even
better. :-))

AUTHOR
------
*demux* was written by Evan Driscoll.


COPYING
-------
Copyright \(C) 2011 Evan Driscoll. Free use of this software is
granted under the terms of the Apache License 2.0. See LICENSE.txt.

